Document cython.compile (#4551)
cython/cython: docs/src/userguide/source_files_and_compilation.rst

and global scopes, and the result of the compilation is cached for
efficient re-use.

Compiling with ``cython.compile``
=================================

> Cython supports transpartent compiling of the cython code within function using
> ``@cython.compile`` dedorator::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cython supports transparent compiling of the cython code in a function using the
``@cython.compile`` dedorator::
```

    @cython.compile
    def plus(a, b):
        return a + b

Parameters of the decorated function cannot have types. Their types are

> automaticaly determined based on values passed to a function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
set to be a standard Python object.
```

The way you've written it implies JIT compilation specialized for whatever type you've passed (which I don't think is what happens)

Author: > The way you've written it implies JIT compilation specialized for whatever type you've passed 

Well Cython does kind of specialisation if I understand it correctly - see the generated .pyx files by the decorator below. Cython generates two versions of function (`_cython_inline_4528cbcb5eb32c44847d2ed113ddee648d7485d6.pyx` and `_cython_inline_3e54f923a152621eae433e8eb5c2eb8559332453.pyx`) - one with python string and other with C long type. 

```
$ python test.py
Compiling /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_4528cbcb5eb32c44847d2ed113ddee648d7485d6.pyx because it changed.
[1/1] Cythonizing /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_4528cbcb5eb32c44847d2ed113ddee648d7485d6.pyx
warning: /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_4528cbcb5eb32c44847d2ed113ddee648d7485d6.pyx:7:4: Unreachable code
35
Compiling /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_3e54f923a152621eae433e8eb5c2eb8559332453.pyx because it changed.
[1/1] Cythonizing /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_3e54f923a152621eae433e8eb5c2eb8559332453.pyx
warning: /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_3e54f923a152621eae433e8eb5c2eb8559332453.pyx:7:4: Unreachable code
8
(cython39) matus@MacBook-Pro:~/dev/cython/test$ cat /Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_4528cbcb5eb32c44847d2ed113ddee648d7485d6.pyx

def __invoke(str a, str b):

    return a + b
    return locals()
(cython39) matus@MacBook-Pro:~/dev/cytho/Users/matus/Library/Caches/cython/inline/_cython_inline_3e54f923a152621eae433e8eb5c2eb8559332453.pyx59332453.pyx

def __invoke(long a, long b):

    return a + b
    return locals()
```

Reviewer 2: Oh OK I didn't know that. What you've written is correct then.

Author: No worries. It was surprising also for me :-D

> Parameters of the decorated function cannot have types. Their types are
> automaticaly determined based on values passed to a function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameters of the decorated function cannot have type declarations. Their types are
automatically determined from values passed to the function, thus leading to one or more
specialised compiled functions for the respective argument types.
```
